add proposal of Dependencies Automatically Propagation (#703)
karmada-io/karmada: docs/proposals/automatically-propagate-relevant-resources/README.md

---
title: Automatically Propagate Relevant Resources
authors:
- "@mrlihanbo"
reviewers:
- "@TBD"
approvers:
- "@TBD"

creation-date: 2021-09-06

---

# Automatically Propagate Relevant Resources

## Summary

Secrets or ConfigMaps can be mounted as data volumes or exposed as environment variables to be used by a container in a Pod.
Meanwhile, users can use a Service to expose the application running on a set of Pods.
 
Thus, it is necessary to deploy the relevant resource into the same member clusters when propagating a Pod by Karmada, i.e, 
Pod dependencies(ConfigMaps and Secrets) and dependents(Services and Ingresses) should "follow" the delegate pods.

> Usually，users don't create Pods directly. Instead, create them using workload resources such as Deployment, StatefulSet or Job.

Reviewer: This symbol `Usually，` doesn't look well formatted.

Author: Nice finding!

- The relevant resources share the same propagation policy with the Deployment.
- Create individual propagation policy for each relevant resource, but users need to make sure the resource scheduled to needed clusters. 

These methods work for most cases, but still has disadvantages:
- For the first method, the dependencies(config maps and secrets) are bound with one Deployment which means it can't be mounted by other Deployments.
- For the second method, users should keep watching the schedule result of the Deployment.

This proposal aims to provide a strategy to intelligently propagate relevant resources for workload resources such as Deployment.

## Motivation

Users need to deploy relevant resource manually when deploying Pods or workload resources by Karmada. It is a heavy burden to maintain target clusters for
relevant resources.

On the other hand, Karmada needs to provide a way to automatically propagate relevant resources to needed clusters.

### Goals

- Provide a strategy to automatically propagate relevant resources of workload resources to needed clusters.

### Non-Goals

- Deprecate the default propagate process for relevant resources.

>  * Relevant resource like ConfigMap, Secret and Service can be propagated by propagation policy as usual.

Reviewer 2: This proposal is really useful👍. I can't wait experiencing this feature any more.

By the way, I'm curious about the implementation of finding relevant resource. IMO, for ConfigMap and Secret we find them by parsing field `spec.volume` of workload, and for Service we find them by filtering services whose filed `spec.selector` matches the label. Am I right?

Author: > This proposal is really useful👍. I can't wait experiencing this feature any more.
> 
> By the way, I'm curious about the implementation of finding relevant resource. IMO, for ConfigMap and Secret we find them by parsing field `spec.volume` of workload, and for Service we find them by filtering services whose filed `spec.selector` matches the label. Am I right?

Yes, the implementation is like what you said. I will submit the pull request soon so that we can discuss more about it. Besides, I have no idea about automatically propagate ingress which are more complex.

Reviewer 2: Well, ingress is much more complicated. And we should process carefully. The field `ingress.spec.rules.http.paths.backend.serviceName` and `ingress.spec.defaultBackend.service.name` are relevant.

- New controllers to intelligently propagate relevant resources.
- Associated docs and architecture diagram as a supplement.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

Imagine that user creates a deployment and a PropagationPolicy, and the `PropagateDeps` is `True`.
- Condition:
  - The deployment refer a ConfigMap and a Secret.
- Result:
  - When the referred ConfigMap and Secret are created, they will be propagated to the same clusters as the deployment.

## Design Details

There will be two types of resource binding, independent resource binding and attached resource binding.

An independent resource binding will be created when a resource is matched by a propagation policy.

Attached resource bindings will be created when the controller propagates relevant resources.

Here's the architecture design diagram.

![propagateDeps](propagateDeps.png)

**Note:**
- Users can enable automatically propagate relevant resources by setting PropagateDeps field in propagation policy to be `True`.
- Each relevant resource has an individual attached resource binding.
- Binding controller should generate one work if a resource is referred by multi resource bindings.

### API Changes

> The API of `PropagationPolicy` and `ResourceBinding` must be changed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We propose to extend the `PropagationPolicy` and `ResourceBinding` API. (The `ClusterPropagationPolicy` and `ClusterResourceBining` should be extended accordingly.)
```

> ```go

Reviewer 3: We can hide the un-changed fields and add some example `yamls`.

	// is referred by other resources.
	BindingTypeAttached BindingType = "Attached"
)

// ResourceBindingSpec represents the expectation of ResourceBinding.
type ResourceBindingSpec struct {
	// Resource represents the Kubernetes resource to be propagated.
	Resource ObjectReference `json:"resource"`

	// PropagateDeps tells if relevant resources should be propagated automatically.
	// e.g. a ConfigMap referred by a Deployment.
	// default false.
	// +optional
	PropagateDeps bool `json:"propagateDeps,omitempty"`
	
	// BindingType indicates the type of binding.
    // +optional 
	BindingType BindingType `json:"bindingType,omitempty"`

	// ReplicaResourceRequirements represents the resources required by each replica.
	// +optional
	ReplicaResourceRequirements corev1.ResourceList `json:"replicaResourceRequirements,omitempty"`

	// Replicas represents the replica number of the referencing resource.
	// +optional
	Replicas int32 `json:"replicas,omitempty"`

	// Clusters represents target member clusters where the resource to be deployed.
	// +optional
	Clusters []TargetCluster `json:"clusters,omitempty"`
}
```

> 

Reviewer 3: I want to know how many controllers will be involved and how they work.
